---
layout: post
title: Linux problems with XPS13 (9360)
---

I originally tested quite a lot of distributions to use with this laptop. Main problem with most distributions is their inability to scale the UI to a reasonable scale. For Desktop environments like GNOME or Budgie, the interface is incredibly small. While it is possible to fix these issues, it is pretty troublesome. I currently run XFCE Manajaro Linux on this machine.


# Sound

White noise when plugging in headphones is unfortunately the standard. In order to temporary fix this issue, simply run `alsamixer` and set the internal microphone boost to 22 (up a notch).

Otherwise, simply refer to the arch [link](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Dell_XPS_13_(9350)#Sound) for the older model. This fixes the problem completely, but again reduces the volume slightly.

# Display

In my daily work I plug the laptop to a external Monitor. There are two major problems with that (On XFCE Desktop): 

1. Plugging a monitor in while running opens a dialog asking where the monitor should be placed. On XFCE there is no option to put the display at the left of the laptop display ( whereas the VGA outlet is [type-c]). 
2. The new display mirrors the current one as default.

Up to this point I did not create not find any script to change the "Display to the right" option to a left one. My current fix revolves around creating a new file in the xorg configuration which by default sets the correct parameters ( new display left of the laptop display ).

Create a file: `/etc/X11/xorg.conf.d/10-monitor.conf` and fill it with the following:

```
Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"eDP1"
	Option	"Primary"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"DP1"
	Option	"LeftOf" "eDP1"
EndSection
```

In order to identify your display device simply run `xrandr` and check the output ( e.g. DP1 is in my case the external display ).

This fix *works*, but only when the machine is started with a plugged in display, otherwise one needs to manually put the new display to the left, by running:

```
xrandr --output eDP1 --auto --output DP1 --auto --left-of eDP1
```

# Touchpad

I currently run XFCE Manjaro Arch on this machine and simply love it with all its perks and it's easy customizability, but miss one single thing: The touchpad precision and smoothness of Pantheon (Elementary OS). Up to this date I do not know why the Pantheon based libinput driver did work far better than any other I have seen within  ubuntu or arch environments, but am investigating. Currently I only use libinput drivers and uninstalled all synaptics drivers. 

```
sudo pacman -S xorg-xerver  libinput
```

#Shadowsocks Proxy

If youre behind the GFW, you might need a proxy or VPN to access some blocked content. I use a simple shadowsocks proxy, which can be installed over python pip:

```
pip install shadowsocks
```

Then configure your shadowsocks proxy with:

```
vim /etc/shadowsocks.json
```

To autostart the proxy on every system start create this file as e.g., `/etc/systemd/system/shadowsocks.service` : 

```
[Unit]
Description=Shadowsocks Client Service
After=network.target

[Service]
Type=simple
User=nobody
ExecStart=/usr/bin/sslocal -c /etc/shadowsocks.json

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

Finally, enable it!

```
systemctl start shadowsocks
systemctl enable shadowsocks
```
